---
title: "Traceable Verifiable Secret Sharing and Applications"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-02-21
excerpt: ' In this paper, we introduce TVSS, ensuring both traceability and verifiability, and propose efficient schemes enabling accountable threshold protocols.'
date: 2025-02-21
venue: 'eprint'
---


<ul>
    <li>A <strong>secret sharing scheme</strong> allows a dealer to distribute a secret among multiple parties, requiring a threshold number to reconstruct it while preventing smaller groups from accessing it.</li>
    <li><strong>Traceable Secret Sharing (TSS)</strong> was introduced in CRYPTO'21 by Goyal, Song, and Srinivasan to identify parties involved in secret reconstruction, discouraging malicious behavior like selling shares.</li>
    <li>Recently, Boneh, Partap, and Rotem (CRYPTO'24) proposed two more efficient TSS schemes, but these assume valid shares and honest shareholders.</li>
    <li>We introduce <strong>Traceable Verifiable Secret Sharing (TVSS)</strong>, ensuring both traceability and verifiability against malicious dealers or shareholders.</li>
    <li>Our general strategy transforms a Shamir-based, computationally secure <strong>Verifiable Secret Sharing (VSS)</strong> scheme into an efficient TVSS scheme.</li>
    <li>Using this strategy, we construct two practical TVSS schemes based on well-known VSS schemes by <strong>Feldman (SFCS'87) and Pedersen (CRYPTO'91)</strong> in an honest-majority setting.</li>
    <li>The proposed TVSS schemes retain public shareholder indexes, improving accountability in threshold protocols like <strong>Distributed Key Generation (DKG).</strong></li>
    <li>Compared to original VSS schemes, the new TVSS schemes increase individual share size by only a single field element, making them just two to three times the size of the main secret.</li>
    <li>Inspired by the study on <strong>Accountable Threshold Cryptosystems (ATCs)</strong> by Boneh, Partap, and Rotem (CRYPTO'24), we introduce an efficient ATC based on the <strong>ElGamal cryptosystem</strong>.</li>
    <li>This new ATC enables a tracer to uniquely identify parties in the decryption process while adding minimal overhead to actively secure or robust threshold protocols.</li>
</ul>



[Link to the paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/318.pdf)